In the world of Python, we
also have a concept known
as infinite generators.
I tend to use them very
less, but there are always
a use case for them.
And especially with the world
of AI coming in, they're actually
getting used quite a lot.
Let me walk you through with
the code, because code is much
easier way to understand this.
So we'll just directly go
ahead and write the code for it
should be easier for you.
Let's go ahead and create a new file.
Call this one as 02/
infinite generators py.
All right, so how does an infinite
generator works and where
is it actually useful?
It's really useful for the streams
as well as the real time
systems that where the constant
updates needs to go on.
Or maybe you want to constantly keep
on getting this as a log value.
They have their use cases as well,
but use them very cautiously.
They can actually drain
the memory as well.
You need a really good memory.
But be careful with that.
They have their use case.
Let's call this one as infinitechai.
So how can we actually
generate infinite chai?
No, we are not going to generate the
infinite chai, but let's just say we
want to simulate a model where once
you buy a T, one cup of it, you can
get a refill as many times as you
wish.
But we are going to keep
noticing that, okay, we
are having, the refills.
So I'll create a variable
and we'll call this one as count.
And count, the initial value is one
because we are pouring this one.
And then we simply go ahead
and say that we have a true loop.
While true is a very dangerous loop,
it keeps on running.
But we're going
to control this a little.
We'll just say we are going
to yield a simple value which
will say just like return,
we are going to say refill.
And with the refill we can
actually use the number of how
many times we are refilling.
So we'll just say count.
And once we actually refill this,
then we simply come up here
and say count plus equals one.
So we are adding a value to it.
I like this one.
Now this is a very dangerous thing
to write if it would be general
return statement or anything there.
But since we are yielding, we are
not troubling the memory that much.
So I can just go ahead and say, hey,
I want a refill and I will have
an infinite child just like this.
Now let's just say I don't want to
use this variable, so I'll just
use an underscore in this one,
remember I told and discuss about
this a little bit that when you
don't want to use this value
itself, you can just write an
underscore.
It fills the syntax but we
tend to avoid creating
an unnecessary variable.
It helps in linting as well.
So let's just say we go for a range
of 3 till the value is 3.
We keep on going with that
and simply go ahead and print.
I cannot just go ahead
and print the refill because
that's not how it works.
I have to use the next
keyword and here I will
have to call the refill.
There we go.
This is how you write
the infinite child.
Let's go ahead and run this
and clean this.
We'll say Python 302
infinite generator.
Notice it this time we are
controlling it, but it's
refill as much as you want.
So we are having a refill 1, 2 and 3.
And again this is a little bit
awkward of a new style of writing
Python, but this is generators
and this is infinite one.
So you can run them as many time
and you are controlling them.
Notice here this loop doesn't
tell you that you have
to stop for 1 or 5 or 10.
This is how we are
controlling the range.
This is going to just
keep on printing.
You have an infinite coupons
printing machine or infinite
refill station that you have
it always keep on getting.
And since we have a while true
and yield, as long as the same
guy is going to call it, it will
keep on working with that.
The advantage of this is now
I can just work with this.
Let's just say this is another client
that comes up or user2 and that
user2 also uses the infinite chai.
There we go.
Now we are keeping a track
of both the objects set separately
with the same function.
So that's really interesting.
So for underscore in range,
let's just say this guy gets
a six cup of refills and I can
just go ahead and say print.
I have to use next
and this time this is user 2.
So both of our user gets this
value and they are separately
just working with that.
So notice here, first we are
running 1, 2 and 345 so this is
for the top one and then
this guy gets a six refill.
So we get all the six
value being refilled.
Pretty interesting, isn't it?
It's not intermixing the values
but it works nicely.
So that is it.
These are your infinite generators.
Hope they were fun.
Let's catch up in the next video.